README.md, before:

# treedsaproblems
# 🌳 Binary Tree Problems in Java

This repository contains Java implementations for popular Binary Tree problems from platforms like **LeetCode** and **GeeksforGeeks**. All solutions are written cleanly with standard Java conventions and include iterative/recursive methods as applicable.

---

## 📂 File Structure

Each file is named after the problem it solves. Problem statements and source links are included inside the Java files as comments.

---

## 🧠 Problem List

| Problem | Java File | Source | Description |
|--------|-----------|--------|-------------|
| BFS Traversal | `bfstree.java` | [GFG - Level Order Traversal](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/level-order-tree-traversal/) | Level-wise traversal using a queue |
| Bottom View | `bottomviewtree.java` | [GFG - Bottom View](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bottom-view-binary-tree/) | Nodes visible from the bottom |
| Boundary Traversal | `boundrytraversal.java` | [GFG - Boundary Traversal](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/boundary-traversal-of-binary-tree/) | Print boundary in anti-clockwise order |
| Check Balanced Tree | `checkforbalancedbinarytree.java` | [GFG - Check Balanced](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-determine-if-a-binary-tree-is-balanced/) | Return true if balanced (height diff ≤ 1) |
| Check Symmetric | `checksymmetrictree.java` | [LeetCode #101](https://leetcode.com/problems/symmetric-tree/) | Mirror check for left and right subtrees |
| Diameter of Tree | `diameterinbinarytree.java` | [LeetCode #543](https://leetcode.com/problems/diameter-of-binary-tree/) | Length of longest path in the tree |
| Height of Tree | `heighttree.java` | [GFG - Height of Tree](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/write-a-c-program-to-find-the-maximum-depth-or-height-of-a-tree/) | Maximum depth of the tree |
| Lowest Common Ancestor (LCA) | `lcatree.java` | [LeetCode #236](https://leetcode.com/problems/lowest-common-ancestor-of-a-binary-tree/) | Find LCA of two given nodes |
| Maximum Path Sum | `maximumpathsumtree.java` | [LeetCode #124](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/) | Maximum sum path (any-to-any) |
| Maximum Width | `maximumwidthtree.java` | [LeetCode #662](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-width-of-binary-tree/) | Max width of tree by level width |
| Postorder Iterative | `postorderiterativetree.java` | [GFG - Postorder Iterative](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/iterative-postorder-traversal/) | Stack-based post-order |
| Preorder Iterative | `preorderiterativetree.java` | [GFG - Preorder Iterative](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/iterative-preorder-traversal/) | Stack-based pre-order |
| Pre/In/Post in One | `prepostinorderinsingle.java` | [GFG - 3 in 1](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-preorder-inorder-and-postorder-traversals-from-given-binary-tree/) | Pre, In, and Post in single traversal |
| Right Side View | `rightsideviewtree.java` | [LeetCode #199](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-right-side-view/) | Visible nodes from the right |
| Root to Node Path | `roottonodepath.java` | [GFG - Root to Node Path](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-path-root-given-node-binary-tree/) | Return path to target node |
| Top View | `topviewtree.java` | [GFG - Top View](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/top-view-of-a-binary-tree/) | Nodes visible from the top |
| Vertical Order Traversal | `verticalordertraversal.java` | [LeetCode #987](https://leetcode.com/problems/vertical-order-traversal-of-a-binary-tree/) | Column-wise top-down order |
| ZigZag Traversal | `zigzagtraversal.java` | [LeetCode #103](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-zigzag-level-order-traversal/) | Alternate left-right level order |
| All Nodes Distance K | `allnodesatdistk.java` | [LeetCode #863](https://leetcode.com/problems/all-nodes-distance-k-in-binary-tree/) | Return all nodes at distance K from a target node |
| Burn Binary Tree (Infection Spread) | `burn_tree.java` | [LeetCode #2385](https://leetcode.com/problems/amount-of-time-for-binary-tree-to-be-infected/) | Time to infect all nodes starting from a given node |
| Count Complete Tree Nodes | `countcompletetreenodes.java` | [LeetCode #222](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-complete-tree-nodes/) | Count total nodes in a complete binary tree |
| Serialize & Deserialize | `serializetree.java` | [LeetCode #297](https://leetcode.com/problems/serialize-and-deserialize-binary-tree/) | Encode tree to string and decode back |


---

## 🔧 How to Run

Compile and run any problem like:

```bash
javac filename.java
java filename

Commit message:

Added LeetCode 105 -Build tree from inorder and preorder updated README

README.md, after:

# treedsaproblems
# 🌳 Binary Tree Problems in Java

This repository contains Java implementations for popular Binary Tree problems from platforms like **LeetCode** and **GeeksforGeeks**. All solutions are written cleanly with standard Java conventions and include iterative/recursive methods as applicable.

---

## 📂 File Structure

Each file is named after the problem it solves. Problem statements and source links are included inside the Java files as comments.

---

## 🧠 Problem List

| Problem | Java File | Source | Description |
|--------|-----------|--------|-------------|
| BFS Traversal | `bfstree.java` | [GFG - Level Order Traversal](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/level-order-tree-traversal/) | Level-wise traversal using a queue |
| Bottom View | `bottomviewtree.java` | [GFG - Bottom View](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bottom-view-binary-tree/) | Nodes visible from the bottom |
| Boundary Traversal | `boundrytraversal.java` | [GFG - Boundary Traversal](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/boundary-traversal-of-binary-tree/) | Print boundary in anti-clockwise order |
| Check Balanced Tree | `checkforbalancedbinarytree.java` | [GFG - Check Balanced](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-determine-if-a-binary-tree-is-balanced/) | Return true if balanced (height diff ≤ 1) |
| Check Symmetric | `checksymmetrictree.java` | [LeetCode #101](https://leetcode.com/problems/symmetric-tree/) | Mirror check for left and right subtrees |
| Diameter of Tree | `diameterinbinarytree.java` | [LeetCode #543](https://leetcode.com/problems/diameter-of-binary-tree/) | Length of longest path in the tree |
| Height of Tree | `heighttree.java` | [GFG - Height of Tree](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/write-a-c-program-to-find-the-maximum-depth-or-height-of-a-tree/) | Maximum depth of the tree |
| Lowest Common Ancestor (LCA) | `lcatree.java` | [LeetCode #236](https://leetcode.com/problems/lowest-common-ancestor-of-a-binary-tree/) | Find LCA of two given nodes |
| Maximum Path Sum | `maximumpathsumtree.java` | [LeetCode #124](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/) | Maximum sum path (any-to-any) |
| Maximum Width | `maximumwidthtree.java` | [LeetCode #662](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-width-of-binary-tree/) | Max width of tree by level width |
| Postorder Iterative | `postorderiterativetree.java` | [GFG - Postorder Iterative](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/iterative-postorder-traversal/) | Stack-based post-order |
| Preorder Iterative | `preorderiterativetree.java` | [GFG - Preorder Iterative](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/iterative-preorder-traversal/) | Stack-based pre-order |
| Pre/In/Post in One | `prepostinorderinsingle.java` | [GFG - 3 in 1](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-preorder-inorder-and-postorder-traversals-from-given-binary-tree/) | Pre, In, and Post in single traversal |
| Right Side View | `rightsideviewtree.java` | [LeetCode #199](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-right-side-view/) | Visible nodes from the right |
| Root to Node Path | `roottonodepath.java` | [GFG - Root to Node Path](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-path-root-given-node-binary-tree/) | Return path to target node |
| Top View | `topviewtree.java` | [GFG - Top View](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/top-view-of-a-binary-tree/) | Nodes visible from the top |
| Vertical Order Traversal | `verticalordertraversal.java` | [LeetCode #987](https://leetcode.com/problems/vertical-order-traversal-of-a-binary-tree/) | Column-wise top-down order |
| ZigZag Traversal | `zigzagtraversal.java` | [LeetCode #103](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-zigzag-level-order-traversal/) | Alternate left-right level order |
| All Nodes Distance K | `allnodesatdistk.java` | [LeetCode #863](https://leetcode.com/problems/all-nodes-distance-k-in-binary-tree/) | Return all nodes at distance K from a target node |
| Burn Binary Tree (Infection Spread) | `burn_tree.java` | [LeetCode #2385](https://leetcode.com/problems/amount-of-time-for-binary-tree-to-be-infected/) | Time to infect all nodes starting from a given node |
| Count Complete Tree Nodes | `countcompletetreenodes.java` | [LeetCode #222](https://leetcode.com/problems/count-complete-tree-nodes/) | Count total nodes in a complete binary tree |
| Serialize & Deserialize | `serializetree.java` | [LeetCode #297](https://leetcode.com/problems/serialize-and-deserialize-binary-tree/) | Encode tree to string and decode back |
| Construct Binary Tree from Preorder and Inorder | `buildtreefromprein.java` | [LeetCode #105](https://leetcode.com/problems/construct-binary-tree-from-preorder-and-inorder-traversal/) | Build binary tree using preorder and inorder traversals |



---

## 🔧 How to Run

Compile and run any problem like:

```bash
javac filename.java
java filename
